[AV-102227] Simplified Vector Index Creation (#444)
couchbaselabs/docs-devex: modules/vector-index/partials/create-composite-index-capella-ui.adoc

. On the *Operational Clusters* page, select the operational cluster where you want to create a Composite Vector index.
. Go to menu:Data Tools[Vector Indexes].
. Click btn:[Create Vector Index].
. Choose btn:[Composite Vector Index].
. In the *Index Name* field, enter a name for your new Vector index.
+
[NOTE]
==== 
Your index name must start with an alphabetic character (a-z or A-Z). It can only contain alphanumeric characters (a-z, A-Z, or 0-9), hyphens (-), or underscores (_).

Your index name must be unique inside your selected bucket and scope.
You cannot have 2 indexes with the same name inside the same bucket and scope.
====
. In the *Bucket*, *Scope*, and *Collection* lists, select the bucket, scope, and collection where you have documents that contain a vector field.
. Under *Vector Field*, in the *Select Field* list, select the vector field to use in your Composite Vector index.
. (Optional) To add a field to use as a filter on the data included in your Composite Vector index, click btn:[+ Add Filter Field].
.. Under *Filter Fields*, select the field you want to use to filter your documents before running vector comparisons.

> .. Under *Include in Index*, choose whether the previously selected field should be included in your index and returned in search results.

Reviewer: The field need not be returned in search results. 
However if the field is chosen to be returned using SELECT clause, it is a "covering index" which doesnt require a KV fetch. 
Also, since this is Composite Index, INCLUDE statement is not available. 
In this case, Include in Index mean that the field is also INDEXED unlike Hyperscale where it is only included along with vector but not indexed.

Reviewer 2: Yep just to confirm the UI for Composite Vector indexes was confusing to me. If you're creating a Composite Vector index and you add a Filter field, but you leave **Include in Index** set to **No**, it does _not_ add the filter field to the index. If you want to add the filter field to the index, you have to set **Include in Index** to **Yes**. It's baffling to me why the **Include in Index** field even exists in this case.

Reviewer 2: Update: I get it now, it's because you might want to partition the index by the scalar field, but not include the scalar field in the index.

Reviewer 2: So yes, I get what @cb-ankush92 is saying in the comment above. It's not enough merely to specify a filter field. The user also must do one or more of the following: select **Yes** under **Include in Index**, select **Yes** under **Partition by Hash**, or specify a **WHERE Clause**, or any combination of the three. If the user doesn't do any of these, the filter field is not added to the index. I didn't find this obvious.

Reviewer: Yes, merely adding that field will not index it. The reason, as you mentioned is that you can choose to partition based on a field but not index it.  
We have tooltips in the UI to clarify this.

If you choose *No*, you can still filter using a `WHERE` clause, but your index will not be partitioned based on field values.
.. (Optional) Under *Add WHERE clause*, enter a clause for the specific values that a document must contain in your filter field to be included in your index.
+
For example, you could filter your index so that only documents with `supplier = "HP"` or `brightness > 0.5` are included.

. Under *Index Configuration*, choose options to configure additional settings for your Composite Vector index: 

.. In the *Similarity Metric* list, select the similarity metric that you want to use for comparing vectors in your index.
For the best accuracy, use the same similarity that you plan to use to query your data.
+
For more information about vector similarity measures, see xref:vector-index:vectors-and-indexes-overview.adoc#vector_similarity[Vector Similarity].
.. In the *Quantization* list, select the type of quantization to use for simplifying the vectors stored in your index.
+
For more information about quantization, see xref:vector-index:vectors-and-indexes-overview.adoc#quantization[Quantization].

> For more information about how to choose quantization on your index, see xref:vector-index:vectors-and-indexes-overview.adoc#choosing_quantization[Choosing Quantization] and xref:vector-index:vector-index-best-practices.adoc#quantization[Tuning Index Creation - Quantization].

Reviewer 2: The `#choosing_quantization` anchor doesn't exist. Did you mean `#choosing-a-quantization-method`?

```suggestion
For more information about how to choose quantization on your index, see xref:vector-index:vectors-and-indexes-overview.adoc#choosing-a-quantization-method[Choosing a Quantization Method] and xref:vector-index:vector-index-best-practices.adoc#quantization[Tuning Index Creation - Quantization].
```

.. In the *Dimensions* field, enter the exact dimension of the vectors in your data.
+
Your embedding model determines this value, and Capella automatically configures it based on your chosen *Vector Field*.
.. In the *Replicas* list, select the number of replicas you want to create for your index.
+
Replicas affect the query throughput, memory footprint, and fault tolerance for your Composite Vector index.
More replicas increase the required memory for your index, but can increase query throughput.

> .. In the *Training List* field, enter or select the number of vectors to consider when searching for centroids in your data.

Reviewer 2: My understanding is, setting the training list is optional. If you don't specify this value, the Index Service defaults to the values described in the tip below. But you can enter a custom training list value if required.

+
[TIP]
====
If you have less than 10,000 vectors in your index, Couchbase recommends setting the *Training List* value to your number of vectors.
If you have more than 10,000 vectors up to a maximum of 1,000,000, use either 10% of your total number of vectors or 10 times your number of centroids - whichever value is higher, up to a maximum of 1,000,000.

You can change your *Training List* value from these recommended defaults.
Increasing the value can improve recall, but increase build times.
Decreasing the value can improve build times, but reduces recall.
====

> .. In the *Probes to scan* field, enter or select the number of centroids to check for similar vectors for each query.

Reviewer 2: Again my understanding is that setting probes to scan is optional. If you don't specify a value the default is 1.

+
A higher value increases search times, but also increases accuracy.

> .. In the *Number of centroids* field, enter or select the number of centroids to create in your index.

Reviewer 2: Again I think setting the number of centroids is optional. If you don't specify a value, the Index Service defaults to the number of vectors in your data divided by 1000.

+
A larger value creates smaller centroids.
By default, set the *Number of centroids* to the number of vectors in your data divided by 1000.
For more information about how to set this value, see xref:vector-index:composite-vector-index.adoc#number-of-centroids[Number of Centroids].

////
.. To store full vectors in the index, select *Persist Full Vector*.
+
This increases the storage required for your index but increases accuracy.

> ////

Reviewer 2: Just to confirm that Persist Full Vector does not apply to Composite Vector indexes.

Reviewer: It does apply to Composite Vector Index. 
One can do reranking / rescoring using full vectors even when using Composite Vector Index.

Author: Last time I checked, it went from being visible in the UI to hidden. Can we confirm what the intention is, please? @cb-ankush92

+
For more information about quantization, see xref:vector-index:vectors-and-indexes-overview.adoc#quantization[Quantization].
For more information about how to choose quantization on your index, see xref:vector-index:vectors-and-indexes-overview.adoc#choosing-a-quantization-method[Choosing a Quantization Method] and xref:vector-index:vector-index-best-practices.adoc#quantization[Tuning Index Creation - Quantization].

.. In the *Dimensions* field, enter the exact dimension of the vectors in your data.
+
Your embedding model determines this value, and Capella automatically configures it based on your chosen *Vector Field*.

.. In the *Replicas* list, select the number of replicas you want to create for your index.
+
Replicas affect the query throughput, memory footprint, and fault tolerance for your Composite Vector index.
More replicas increase the required memory for your index, but can increase query throughput.

.. (Optional) In the *Training List* field, enter or select the number of vectors to consider when searching for centroids in your data.
+
[TIP]
====
If you have less than 10,000 vectors in your index, Couchbase sets the *Training List* value to your number of vectors.

> If you have more than 10,000 vectors up to a maximum of 1,000,000, Couchbase recommends using either 10% of your total number of vectors or 10 times your number of centroids - whichever value is higher, up to a maximum of 1,000,000.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have more than 10,000 vectors up to a maximum of 1,000,000, Couchbase sets the *Training List* value to either 10% of your total number of vectors or 10 times your number of centroids - whichever value is higher, up to a maximum of 1,000,000.
```
